# AA-SI_Calibration
Calibration routines, formats, and information

Calibration is a fundamental and critical componenent of ensuring the data are of high quality and can be used for quantitative stock assessment, ecosystem science, and fisheries management. This repository provides functions, routines, and other information for reading and evaluating calibration data and calibration results.

As part of the calibration effort, we’ve started documenting differences between the various formats and standards for storing calibration data. We’ve recorded some of those differences in this google doc: [Calibration Parameter Nomenclature and Structure](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JcOW-rruu92jznbOPTHcbPeEvHDVz-Qx0toAXt6V3h8/edit?usp=sharing). We’ve also started noting questions and feedback for ICES on the SONARnetCDF4 v2.0 format [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Pq0om-HpDSQI-G8n6Lajo-POEZ5eTs_bauCjT7rhVU8/edit?usp=sharing).

## Disclaimer
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products,  processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
